Create 2019-12-21-how-to-make-a-geographic-map-in-ember.md (#466)
ember-learn/ember-blog: source/2019-12-21-countdown-to-the-new-year-ember-mapbox-gl.md

---

> title: How to Make a Map in Ember

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Countdown to The New Year - Ember Mapbox GL
```

author: Matt Gardner
tags: 2019, Addons, DecEmber
alias: 2019-12-21-countdown-to-the-new-year-ember-mapbox-gl.md
responsive: true
---

> Have you ever wondered how to _make maps in Ember_? No? Okay, but you should!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**This is the 21st in our DecEmber series–"Countdown to The New Year: 31 Days of Ember Addons". We plan to highlight a new addon each day until the new year, and we hope you'll join us for the fun!**

## Day 21

Today we are going to take a look at making maps in Ember with [ember-mapbox-gl](https://emberobserver.com/addons/ember-mapbox-gl).

READMORE

### What It Does

Have you ever wondered how to _make maps in Ember_? No? Okay, but you should!
```

```hbs
{{#if this.someCondition}}
  <map.layer /> {{!-- show something !}}
{{/if}}
```

When the `someCondition` is truthy, it shows the layer. When it's falsey, it triggers the teardown methods inside mapbox-gl so things don't fall out of sync.

Much of ember-mapbox-gl is simply a _bindings_ layer. It provides a declarative templating API for invoking parts of the mapbox-gl API proper. So, it's hands-off. But the price of customizability is having less of an opinion. As I mentioned earlier, that's where [Ember Leaflet](https://miguelcobain.github.io/ember-leaflet/) really shines, and I encourage you to look at that as well.

### Note on map data providers

I'm a little disappointed by the dearth of free and open _vector_ map data providers. That said, if you find that you would like to host your own map tile provider, check out [OpenMapTiles](https://openmaptiles.org/). It's a free and open source server that hosts those tile URLs we were using at the beginning. My team uses it and have had no issues.

> Thanks for reading! If you have any questions, please hit me up on the Ember Discord channel. I'm more than happy to help!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks for reading! If you have any questions, please message me via the [Ember Discord](https://discord.gg/emberjs) chat (Matt Gardner#6278). 
I'm more than happy to help! 

Do you use this addons? Or any like them? We'd love to hear about Ember addons that bring you joy!
```
